Becker, J. C., et al. (2017). "Merkel cell carcinoma." Nat Rev Dis Primers 3: 17077.
	Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare but highly aggressive skin cancer with neuroendocrine features. MCC pathogenesis is associated with either the presence of Merkel cell polyomavirus or chronic exposure to ultraviolet light (UV), which can cause a characteristic pattern of multiple DNA mutations. Notably, in the Northern hemisphere, the majority of MCC cases are of viral aetiology; by contrast, in areas with high UV exposure, UV-mediated carcinogenesis is predominant. The two aetiologies share similar clinical, histopathological and prognostic characteristics. MCC presents with a solitary cutaneous or subcutaneous nodule, most frequently in sun-exposed areas. In fact, UV exposure is probably involved in both viral-mediated and non-viral-mediated carcinogenesis, by contributing to immunosuppression or DNA damage, respectively. Confirmation of diagnosis relies on analyses of histological features and immunological marker expression profiles of the lesion. At primary diagnosis, loco-regional metastases are already present in approximately 30% of patients. Excision of the tumour is the first-line therapy; if not feasible, radiotherapy can often effectively control the disease. Chemotherapy was the only alternative in advanced-stage or refractory MCC until several clinical trials demonstrated the efficacy of immune-checkpoint inhibitors.

Harms, K. L., et al. (2016). "Analysis of Prognostic Factors from 9387 Merkel Cell Carcinoma Cases Forms the Basis for the New 8th Edition AJCC Staging System." Ann Surg Oncol 23(11): 3564-3571.
	BACKGROUND: The first consensus Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) staging system was published in 2010. New information on the clinical course prompts review of MCC staging. METHODS: A total of 9387 MCC cases from the National Cancer Data Base Participant User File with follow-up and staging data (1998-2012) were analyzed. Prognostic differences based on clinical and pathological staging were evaluated. Survival estimates were compared by disease extent. RESULTS: Sixty-five percent of cases presented with local disease, whereas 26 and 8 % presented with nodal and distant disease. Disease extent at presentation was predictive of 5-year overall survival (OS) with estimates of 51, 35, and 14 % for local, nodal, and distant disease. Tumor burden at the regional nodal basin was predictive of 5-year OS with estimates of 40 and 27 % for clinically occult and clinically detected nodal disease. For local disease, we confirm improved prognosis when the regional nodal basin was negative by pathological compared with clinical staging. We identified 336 cases with clinically detected nodal disease and unknown primary tumor and showed improved prognosis over cases presenting with concurrent primary tumor (OS estimates of 42 vs. 27 %). CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of a national dataset of MCC cases validates the predictive value of disease extent at presentation. Separation of clinical and pathological stage groups and regrouping of unknown primary tumors are supported by the analysis. The revised staging system provides more accurate prognostication and has been formally accepted by the AJCC staging committee for inclusion in the 8th edition.

Zheng, S., et al. (2022). "SynergyFinder Plus: Toward Better Interpretation and Annotation of Drug Combination Screening Datasets." Genomics Proteomics Bioinformatics 20(3): 587-596.
	Combinatorial therapies have been recently proposed to improve the efficacy of anticancer treatment. The SynergyFinder R package is a software used to analyze pre-clinical drug combination datasets. Here, we report the major updates to the SynergyFinder R package for improved interpretation and annotation of drug combination screening results. Unlike the existing implementations, the updated SynergyFinder R package includes five main innovations. 1) We extend the mathematical models to higher-order drug combination data analysis and implement dimension reduction techniques for visualizing the synergy landscape. 2) We provide a statistical analysis of drug combination synergy and sensitivity with confidence intervals and P values. 3) We incorporate a synergy barometer to harmonize multiple synergy scoring methods to provide a consensus metric for synergy. 4) We evaluate drug combination synergy and sensitivity to provide an unbiased interpretation of the clinical potential. 5) We enable fast annotation of drugs and cell lines, including their chemical and target information. These annotations will improve the interpretation of the mechanisms of action of drug combinations. To facilitate the use of the R package within the drug discovery community, we also provide a web server at www.synergyfinderplus.org as a user-friendly interface to enable a more flexible and versatile analysis of drug combination data.

R Core Team (2024). _R: A Language and Environment for
  Statistical Computing_. R Foundation for Statistical
  Computing, Vienna, Austria.
  <https://www.R-project.org/>.
